hi y'all Lazlo Montgomery hair back once
again to another if I may be so
presumptuous exciting episode of the
China history podcast today is sort of a
light day again you can eat Peking duck
every day sometimes there's a need for
some shoots high and that day is today
some vegan fare we're going to finish
off our little survey or whatever you
want to call it of Taoism in China we
first looked at the proto da wasn't
period with lotsa and kwanzaa then we
looked at the Classical period of
dollars and which ran from the Hun to
the tongue you know I didn't really keep
going after that song grand Ming Jing
lots of good stuff but well I just had
to make an executive decision as decider
in charge so today rather than look at
the more modern history of Taoism were
instead going to focus on the ones who
are the most key gods and Taoist
mythology so we'll look mostly at the
Eight Immortals in general and with
maybe a special emphasis on johnny tran
and dong being a lot of people like me
who lived in the Chinese speaking part
of Asia for a long time wherever we went
in every home or apartment shop meat
market public building wherever we were
surrounded with all these images of
Taoist deities this included statues
paintings advertisements and the like
honestly I saw them and I couldn't
distinguish which one was which and what
was this guy's backstory this was pre
podcasting days there was there was no
there was no China history podcast back
then to sort them all out and offer up
the skinny on each one and maybe in farm
where I might have seen this particular
deity before or where have I seen those
eight gods in the boat before in Taoism
you can't get any higher than the Sun
chain the three Pure Ones they have a
lot of names the three pellucid one's
the three pristine ones the three divine
teachers the three clarity's and is a
variation of the three Pure Ones they're
also quite often referred to as the
three purities in Chinese they say all
that two syllable
they are known as the Sun Ching Sun
first tone means 3 Ching well among many
things means pure this character first
tone is also the character for the Ching
dynasty these three gods are considered
the highest manifestation of the doll
they started everything they themselves
were created by yin and yang combined
with the life force the Chi the
primordial celestial energy that gave
rise to life as we know it it was of
course without any physical form it was
just an energy force but a lot of
religions demand that some force of
nature or power or some superhuman force
be matched together with some kind of
physical representation of a god or an
idol if you will these gods the three
Pure Ones would be the ones most likely
placed in the central altar of any
Taoist temple the three Pure Ones they
too are depicted as three wise old men
something that has symbolized
reassurance and cultures everywhere they
each have names specific powers and
symbols that they are always shown
holding you could sort of sum them up as
the Creator the guardian and the last is
the teacher they have come to us as the
physical manifestation of all living
beings past present future each one is
tasked with something or other that
through benevolence and mercy they bring
to mankind they are in order the Jade
pure one yu ting supreme pure one Chang
Qing and the grand pere one Tai Chi
let's first look at yen sure Tenzin the
universally honoured one of origin the
universal Lord of the primordial
beginning the celestial venerable of the
primordial beginning the primeval lord
of heaven he's the Jade pure one you
Ching the source of all truth he's the
first of three Pure Ones he had an
apprentice a successor because before he
moved on to other things the Jade pure
one he had an apprentice who succeeded
him as the ruler of heaven and earth and
this successor was known as the Jade
Emperor or you hung or you deep will get
to him in a second let's finish off
three Pure Ones the next up the three
Pure Ones is shawn cheng the supreme
cure won the celestial worthy of
numinous treasure the supreme cure one
is also known as ling bout Tenzin he is
among other things the custodian of the
sacred books he is usually shown holding
a wish-granting scepter that is sort of
shaped like a mushroom the base is
resting on his lower right hand and the
central point of the scepter is held in
his raised left hand the last of the
three purities is the grand pere one or
thai ching he's also the universally
honoured one of doll and virtues the
universal lord of the way and its virtue
and so he is also called thought kinsman
it sometimes also grand supreme elder
Lord or Tai Shan lowchen he is the one
who supposedly manifested himself as the
great Lao Tzu in the paintings and
statues he's the one who always has the
long white beard let's jump to the Jade
Emperor you might have heard a read his
name a lot more than the three Pure Ones
he is the ruler of heaven and earth
including hell and all men who walked
the earth nice where he always mixed up
the Jade Emperor with the Yellow Emperor
the Jade Emperor I told you he began his
career in the service of un sure Tenzin
the Jade pure one when the Jade pure one
decided to retire so to speak from this
position the thankless job of ruling and
shaping the heavens and earth fell on
the Jade Emperor not including the three
Pure Ones the Jade Emperor is the
supreme god in Taoism and Chinese folk
religion he's also called chen xiang GAO
xiang yu huang dotty the great jade
emperor of the highest mysterious void
now he didn't create the world this was
the Jade pure one but he helped the Jade
pure one you ain't sure Tenzin to bring
order to the cosmos so when the Emperor
of China no matter the han sung Tong
Ming or whoever whenever they had the
Mandate of Heaven specifically they were
talking about the approval of the Jade
Emperor ruled heaven he's a good example
of a deity that was alive and well
before
taoism before Buddhism and whose legend
was incorporated into Taoism the Jade
Emperor embodies the doll and uses wool
way to rule the heavens on earth the
Jade Emperor has many Chinese names
being so important in all in Chinese
culture he's known as Tim cone or
heavenly grandfather he's also called
you Han Xiang d you means Jade Huang
means Emperor and shaundi means God the
Jade Emperor is the one who gave us the
Chinese zodiac he's the one who chose to
12 animals as the legend goes as told by
hundreds of millions of parents and
grandparents and China going back to the
beginning the Jade Emperor invited all
the animals to visit him in heaven and
only 12 showed up the cat was the 13th
animal but his friend the rat didn't
wake him up in time for the big meeting
with the Jade Emperor in heaven that's
why be enemy of the rat is the cat to
this day in the Vietnamese zodiac
however the cat gets a place of honor
amongst the 12 animals of the zodiac and
the rabbit is the odd one out in this
case I've asked my wife about that one
the Jade Emperor's main role in modern
Chinese society is to meet out reward or
punishment whatever the case may be to
all mortals how does he find this out
who reports the Jade Emperor about who's
naughty and nice solid June he's the
famous kitchen God or stove God I guess
you could compare him to Vesta and Roman
mythology the goddess of the hearth he
goes to heaven once a year a new year's
eve and reports everything to the Jade
Emperor so it's critical that before he
ascends to heaven and spills the beans
the tradition calls for you to take your
salt gene statue in the kitchen and
smear his mouth with honey or something
sweet so that only sweet things can come
out of his mouth when he goes to report
to the Jade Emperor so that's a solid
June the kitchen God lots of stories
about him don't have anything to do with
Taoism so let's look at the you don't
bean he was born during the Tang Dynasty
around seven
98 this would put him around the time of
the dead zone Emperor sort of right in
the middle not a good part of the tongue
but also not the worst part he's the
most popular and well-loved of the Eight
Immortals he's the healer of the poor
and Slayer of evil spirits his symbols
that you'll invariably always see him
carrying our a magical sword that was
presented to him on mount lu lu shan by
a dragon who inhabited the mountain this
sword among other things allowed him to
conceal himself in heaven and to destroy
evil spirits his other symbol that looks
like a whisk this whisk it was like some
rod with horse's tail on it that's what
it looked like its role was to shoo away
ignorance and anything that had a
negative influence on your mind lutong
beans passion is helping others to
acquire wisdom study the doll and be
their guiding hand in achieving
spiritual enlightenment just Google
baidu or Bing his name and you'll see
plenty of images most often the sword is
on his back and the fly whisk thing is
in his left hand before lutong bean
became an immortal he was called Luo Yin
like hong shao qian eleven years later
during the Taiping rebellion days lutong
bean or twin yan says he later became
known was a three-time loser on the
civil service exams to drown out his
sorrows and humiliation for his failures
he took to the bottle one day while he
was deep in his cups one of the Eight
Immortals John Lee Chen sees him and
takes an interest in this 40 something
year old Liu dong theme he takes Lou
back to his dwelling to let him sleep
off this drunken state he was in whilst
dreaming at jolie Chan's hot lutong beam
dreamt that he had become a great
scholar official who rose all the way to
the top and achieved every acclaim
imaginable but one day he somehow had
managed to offend the Emperor and his
whole family was executed and he was
banished from China there are several
variations of this job like
he woke up from this nightmare in Chun
Li Chen comforts him and knew every
detail of his dream even before Luke
donk being told them therefore lutong
beam was certain this man was a god and
he begged to be his disciple this dream
also taught you don't being that that
Fame glory and riches was not the
correct path he should follow Chun Li
Chen asked him why is he trying to
shorten his life by abusing his body and
drinking so much when he could lengthen
his life by following the doll this
episode is known as the famous yellow
millet dream the Wan Leon month since
strongly Tran was making a pot of boiled
mellett when Liu dong beam fell asleep
and when he awoke from his dream John
Lee tread was still stirring that pot of
millets lu you ended up becoming one of
the earliest masters of what's known as
internal alchemy which in chinese is
called Nate on this is the discipline
followed by some believers in Taoism
that prolongs the life of the body and
makes one immortal innate Don you use
your body as a vessel to cultivate the
Sun ball the three treasures of Jing Qi
and shun the essence the energy and the
spirit and this is on a very simple
level the study of the three treasures
is something people study or practice
for a lifetime and there's a lot to it a
podcast worthy topic if I say so myself
but here we're just touching on it as it
relates to leave don't be he's probably
the most colorful character and beloved
of the Eight Immortals his aim is to
help mankind and to help them to study
the DA he has some character flaws that
bring all sorts of amusement to
followers of Chinese culture he has an
eye for the ladies and never got over
his love of alcohol and also was known
for his occasional explosive temper he
attained immortality only after he
satisfied chun li chen's instructions to
perform 3000 good deeds first so even
after he became a deity he still walked
the earth testing people and
rewarding those who were worthy but he's
considered the leader or at least the
co-leader of the Eight Immortals and
he's the patron saint so to speak of
jugglers magicians and barbers he's also
popular as a solver of romantic problems
of all kinds a whole cult developed
around Luc dong beaned by the Song
Dynasty there's an old saying still very
much in use today that goes go y'all you
don't be this translates to dog bites
Liu dong ding it's a saying one uses to
describe repaying kindness with a mean
actor not being able to recognize
kind-hearted person or mistaking
kindness for bad intent like everything
there's a story behind this but we got
to move on let's take a quick look at
the Eight Immortals the boss Ian who are
so honored by Daoists and so beloved in
Chinese culture walking around China
Hong Kong Taiwan or almost anywhere in
the predominantly Chinese speaking world
it would be hard if not impossible not
to see references made to the bastion
they're shown in countless paintings
wall calendars statues figurines found
in shops people's homes adverts on
billboards magazines on TV and all over
society and as far as Chinatown gift
shop favourites are concerned if they
had to get rid of anything that even
remotely was related to the Eight
Immortals the shop would be half empty
each one is a special power that is
contained in some weapon or tool that
the particular immortal is always seen
holding like I said Liu dong beam
carried a sword and this whisk John Lee
Chan he had the this magical feathered
fan which could bring the dead back to
life and he's always shown with his
robes sort of loose and his big belly
hanging out and that fan is always in
his right hand like in other cultures
practice around the world ancient
Chinese would immortalize certain people
who had great Fame for one reason or
another and usually for some act of
heroism or Hugh superhuman feat in China
this goes way back even before doll
but like I said doe ism would act like a
sponge just soaking up these more
interesting and intriguing local
traditions and the Eight Immortals are
an example of that quickly Chun Li Chen
his surname is chumley it's one of those
rare chinese compound surnames like Oh
Jung soo soo ma and Shang Guan to name
the most common and those are not so
common let me tell you o young maybe a
little so his surname isn't Joan with
the given name Li Chen his surname is
Joan Lee with the given name of Chen I
mentioned this about these two syllable
Chinese surnames when I first discussed
samat yen in a very old episode so you
don't bean and Johnny Tran they're
considered two of the leaders of the
Eight Immortals lutong bean exists only
in mythology there's no rock solid
evidence that he ever lived Zhang Li
Chen however he was born during the Han
Dynasty and served as a general which
makes him the oldest or one of the
oldest of the Eight Immortals now he
might be a historical person there's
hardly rock-solid evidence Zhang Guo Lao
another immortal is considered a
historic person but I'd say if he had
best in English his name is Zhang Guo
Lao this would translate as elder or
venerable john guare he like most of the
Immortals was born during the Tang
Dynasty he's the one in the paintings
who is shown riding backwards on a white
mule and is carrying this thing that
looks like a bamboo golf bag with two
putters inside but in actuality it's
called a fish drum or a you gu this
talisman can foretell the future and act
as a divining rod the mule that carries
Zhang Guo Lao over a thousand Li a day
or about 650 miles at the end of the
day's journey can be conveniently folded
up like a piece of paper in a
pocket-sized square and put away in some
place safe and then when Zhang Guo Lao
would awake the next morning he need
only take a gulp of water and spit it on
this folded white
and he becomes an unfolded version ready
to be mounted and do another 650 miles
and then Chanku hola he's off and
running perhaps after a nice bowl of
dojang and yoyo who knows he is so many
things both to Taoism and to Chinese
folklore lovers of kungfu probably would
know who john guo lao is many legendary
moves and styles were credited to
junghwa he's another immortal who is a
fun-loving boozing type and beloved for
his many eccentricities let's quickly
run down the other five there's Lance
hike huh this immortal is the
androgynous type another one to come out
of the tongue dynasty in the paintings
of the Eight Immortals this is the one
always shown holding a bamboo basket of
flowers and often only one shoe he's
another crazy immortal and like so many
others enjoyed a nice tipple when he can
get one he carried a flower basket that
contained flowers that could be used to
communicate with other deities then you
had hanshi ansa uh he's another one born
in the tang dynasty he was a student of
loot don't be he's the one with the
flute and when Han shuangta blows his
flute it makes flowers bloom and soothes
the beasts of the wild then you had
leaked a guai or iron Crutchley he's the
scraggly old barefoot guy with an airing
carrying an iron crutch a tea egg white
and a gourd that's filled with medicine
that he offers to the poor and the sick
and the scored no matter how much
medicine you dispense the supply and the
gourd is never exhausted lychee aqua is
particularly beloved of all these Taoist
immortals and the stories of his
benevolence abound in Chinese culture a
quick story that Chinese know from
childhood before becoming an immortal he
was a handsome guy named Lee shin yeah
he was very shy as the Chinese like to
say a bona fide handsome guy one day he
sat down to meditate and allowed his
spirit to fly to heaven to meet with
other deities but before he left he told
his apprentice to wait seven days for
his spirit to return
if he did not return after seven days
and it was okay to burn his body because
he had become an immortal so you guessed
it six and a half days later his
apprentice he has to rush back to his
village to see his dying mother one last
time and he was so sure as master would
not be returning and had become immortal
so he burned the body and left at once
and of course ly TTYL comes back and no
beautiful handsome body instead he had
to take the closest available body which
turned out to be a homeless starving
beggar with a bad leg would just died
along the side of the road so that
became his new body it was his
benevolence and all that he did for the
sick and dying that led to his
immortality next we have talked walk
Jill royal Uncle Tom he's one who also
is mentioned in the history books so he
might have been a real historic person
before he attracted the attention of the
gods for his kind acts of charity which
led to his becoming the eighth of the
Eight Immortals he was personally
groomed to become one of the eight
immortals by Luc dong beam and John Lee
Chen he's the one who is always dressed
as an official and carried a jade tablet
and sometimes these Chinese clappers or
castanets last but not least is the only
woman of the Eight Immortals ho shanku
aka hood young immortal womanhood she's
also up the tang dynasty and she's easy
to figure out and all the depictions of
the Eight Immortals because her sheng gu
is the only woman and she's always
carrying a lotus flower with an
elongated stalk that was said to improve
one's mental and physical health and she
came from guangdong now for all the
Eight Immortals the important thing is
that they all attained immortality and
God status through their practice of
Taoism and you all remember jungle Ling
from the first and second podcast on da
ilysm he too as deity status for all
that he did for the practice of Taoism
for and for organizing it all like he
did ok so we've looked at all the most
important and critical Taoist deities
the ones I mentioned these are the
deities you'll most commonly see today
if you find yourself in China
a cow or Taiwan or China time there are
many many more besides these the four
guides are so you the four saints who
protect the standards the hufa souchong
there's the rule of june or five
venerable lords I mean the list goes on
and on I guess if I stop running out of
ideas for topics I'll look for these
more obscure Taoist deities we can do an
episode on them if such a thing can even
be possible if you never ever saw the
Eight Immortals before go ahead and
check out my website the image
associated with this Taoism part 3
podcast is of the ultimate number one
most famous story about the Eight
Immortals called the boss Cheng hua hai
or the Eight Immortals cross the sea the
whole gang of eight was enroute to the
pan call wait the conference of the
magic peach when all of a sudden they
encounter an ocean well being immortals
and all with all these powers one of
them says hey you know no big deal let's
just jump the clouds and get there that
way but lutong bean instead said nope
they should take a boat across the ocean
and combine their individual magic
powers to cross the ocean or go high
this theme in Chinese culture of all
eight immortals chipping in their
individual talents to overcome a
collective challenge is one of the more
treasured little stories passed down
since time immemorial paintings
embroidery works would Jade carvings
works of art and I regret to say ivory
carvings used this theme of Bashan gua
hi if one of them can't be found at your
local Chinese restaurant I'll eat my hat
anywho we're going to hit the stop
button right now and I hope you all got
something out of this little three-part
overview about Taoism in China I thought
about quoting many more passages from
the thought did Jing Johnson reading
different commentaries on them but I
thought mean Who am I kidding I'm hardly
an expert on the subject so the
historical and cultural aspects of
Taoism the
is what I wanted to focus on if you're
interested at all about the subject and
want to read the great works they're all
freely available on the internet I can't
even think of another word to use except
to say there is a plethora of
information scholarly papers
commentaries and whatnot that can teach
you everything you wanted to know about
da ilysm but just remember what trongsa
said 2,000 years ago life is finite
while knowledge is infinite you can
spend your whole life trying to learn
about everything there is to know about
one aspect of China or you can listen to
the China history podcast each week and
get the main points when my new website
is up I know I've been saying this I'm
in claremont and leo he's up and saying
Josie so progress is glacial but we're
almost there I wanted to say that since
I get so much mail and see comments
regarding the sustained barrage of
Chinese names I rattle off and how
challenging it is to remember them I'm
thinking about inserting a little info
in each podcast at the website China
history podcast com I'll list all the
key names places or events that I say in
my cantata gentleman I know it's very
hard to understand these Chinese names
so hopefully this will help that's
coming up soon anyway this is laszlo
Montgomery signing off from the town of
Berkeley California I'm multitasking
doing my podcasting chores and sending
my number one daughter off to college
I'm juggling two chores at once I guess
lutong bean is my patron saint then take
care everyone and thanks a lot for all
the emails i try to answer everyone i
thank you for listening and i'm hoping
i'll see you next week for another
exciting episode of the china history
podcast